So a very common question.
One of the most common is what is a lexical verse block scope.
Another way that they may be at you may be asked this is they'll ask you what is the difference between
Konst inlet and voire.
This is all sort of the same question.
So let's let's take let's take it from the cost less.
Let Anvari who is going to answer the same way but do know that most 50 percent of times when the phrase
says what it's like schools lexical scope verse Blasco.
So what is consulate in var.
Well Kosslyn of art are ways to store variables.
Var is the traditional way which has sort of been deprecated with the addition of constant let And that
uses lexical scope lexical scope is really refers to variable hoisting where we're talking about your
variables even though there define the say enough falsie if statement where they shouldn't exist.
You're still going to get a undefined value for them instead of an air thrown because those variables
are going to be hoisted to the top of their function scope.
And you know there's some issues with this.
A very basic example of it would be with a for loop for instance where you might expect your let our
VAR I's equal to zero to like the length of an array.
It's actually going to have that that plus one value that breaks that for loop iteration.
If we for some reason wanted to use that variable after the fact because it still exists in that function
scope and that's not something that we typically want to happen now let in Koncz contes refers to storing
data that's going to be a constant.
It's a primitive type meaning it's going to be a boolean a a string a number and it's not going to be
modified.
However when it comes to arrays and objects Conte's has a has the ability to.
You're not going to be able to swap in a new array.
But we can do is modify that array in object so it's not constant in how some people may think.
And then let is essentially var 2.0 but that uses that's where we're going to be resetting our values
where constant let use block scope block scope which means that our variables exist only in which the
scope that they are defined.
And there is no variable hoisting associated with them out up to the top of the function scope.
All right so let's look at a very quick example of lexical scope.
First block scope so you'll see here we have this false statement and if we have our VAR example Alysha
say we initialize it to true if we don't have to really initialize it.
But if we wanted to cancel all log out example what we're going to get here is actually a to my focus
on what we're going to get for our value here.
Is this actually going to return undefined at this instance.
It looks like we're having an issue with Koka to do that but maybe he doesn't like that it's printing
out something that's undefined but it's not going to throw in error.
I guess my point I'm trying to say because what's happening in lexical scope is this.
This variable definition is actually getting hoisted in the javascript when it gets compiled to look
something like this var example.
Which then would have a undefined value.
This is going to cause for there not to be an error thrown but it's also going to not really be what
you expect.
You know our code when we write it should look and render as we would expect.
So if we change just to let example be true we would in fact have an error thrown on this.
You know what we're actually not calling this are we.
Though that might be why.
Why it's not running.
And so you'll see here in our VAR we get a undefined as I saying but in our Lead we're going to get
an error here because it's not defined within this scope because block scope means that it only exists
within its block of code and there is no variable hoisting associated with it and that may be another
thing as well.
Or they might ask you what variable hoisting is but that's a very brief definition of lexical velox.
But it's a very important one especially for these technical phone interviews.